README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Claude Technical Workflows</h1>

<p align="center">
  <strong>Structured Discussion & Planning Skills for Claude Code</strong>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="#the-six-phase-workflow">Workflow</a> •
  <a href="#skills">Skills</a> •
  <a href="#commands">Commands</a> •
  <a href="#how-it-works">How It Works</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a>
</p>

---

## About

A structured approach to technical discussions and implementation planning with Claude Code. These skills enforce a deliberate **research-then-discuss-then-specify-then-plan-then-implement-then-review** workflow that captures context, decisions, and rationale before any code is written—then validates the work against those artifacts.

**Why this matters:** Complex features benefit from thorough discussion before implementation. These skills help you document the *what* and *why* before diving into the *how*—preserving architectural decisions, edge cases, and the reasoning behind choices that would otherwise be lost.

**This is a work in progress.** The workflow is being refined through real-world usage. Expect updates as patterns evolve.

## Installation

```bash
composer require --dev leeovery/claude-technical-workflows
```

That's it. The [Claude Manager](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-manager) handles everything else automatically.

## The Six-Phase Workflow

This package enforces a deliberate progression through six distinct phases:

```
┌───────────────┐   ┌───────────────┐   ┌───────────────┐   ┌───────────────┐   ┌───────────────┐   ┌───────────────┐
│   Research    │──▶│  Discussion   │──▶│ Specification │──▶│   Planning    │──▶│Implementation │──▶│    Review     │
│   (Phase 1)   │   │   (Phase 2)   │   │   (Phase 3)   │   │   (Phase 4)   │   │   (Phase 5)   │   │   (Phase 6)   │
├───────────────┤   ├───────────────┤   ├───────────────┤   ├───────────────┤   ├───────────────┤   ├───────────────┤
│ EXPLORING     │   │ WHAT & WHY    │   │ REFINING      │   │ HOW           │   │ DOING         │   │ VALIDATING    │
│               │   │               │   │               │   │               │   │               │   │               │
│ • Ideas       │   │ • Architecture│   │ • Validate    │   │ • Phases      │   │ • Tests first │   │ • Plan check  │
│ • Market      │   │ • Decisions   │   │ • Filter      │   │ • Tasks       │   │ • Then code   │   │ • Specs check │
│ • Viability   │   │ • Edge cases  │   │ • Enrich      │   │ • Criteria    │   │ • Commit often│   │ • Test quality│
│               │   │ • Rationale   │   │ • Standalone  │   │ • Outputs     │   │ • Phase gates │   │ • Code quality│
└───────────────┘   └───────────────┘   └───────────────┘   └───────────────┘   └───────────────┘   └───────────────┘
        ▲                   ▲                   ▲                   ▲                   ▲                   ▲
        │                   │                   │                   │                   │                   │
 technical-research  technical-discussion  technical-spec  technical-planning  technical-impl  technical-review
```

**Phase 1 - Research:** Explore ideas from their earliest seed. Investigate market fit, technical feasibility, business viability. Free-flowing exploration that may or may not lead to building something.

**Phase 2 - Discussion:** Captures the back-and-forth exploration of a problem. Documents competing solutions, why certain approaches won or lost, edge cases discovered, and the journey to decisions—not just the decisions themselves.

**Phase 3 - Specification:** Transforms discussion documentation into a validated, standalone specification. Filters hallucinations and inaccuracies, enriches gaps through discussion, and builds a document that planning can execute against without referencing other sources.

**Phase 4 - Planning:** Converts specifications into actionable implementation plans with phases, tasks, and acceptance criteria. Supports multiple output formats (local markdown, Linear, Backlog.md).

**Phase 5 - Implementation:** Executes the plan using strict TDD. Writes tests first, implements to pass, commits frequently, and stops for user approval between phases.

**Phase 6 - Review:** Validates completed work against specification requirements and plan acceptance criteria. The specification is the validated source of truth—earlier phases may contain rejected ideas that were intentionally filtered out. Provides structured feedback without fixing code directly.

## How It Works

This package depends on [`leeovery/claude-manager`](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-manager), which:

1. **Symlinks skills** into your project's `.claude/skills/` directory
2. **Symlinks commands** into your project's `.claude/commands/` directory
3. **Symlinks agents** into your project's `.claude/agents/` directory
4. **Manages your `.gitignore`** with a deterministic list of linked skills, commands, and agents
5. **Handles installation/removal** automatically via Composer hooks

You don't need to configure anything—just install and start discussing.

### Output Structure

Documents are stored using a **phase-first** organization:

```
docs/workflow/
├── research/              # Phase 1 - flat, semantically named files
│   ├── competitor-analysis.md
│   └── pricing-models.md
├── discussion/            # Phase 2 - one file per topic
│   └── {topic}.md
├── specification/         # Phase 3 - one file per topic
│   └── {topic}.md
└── planning/              # Phase 4 - one file per topic
    └── {topic}.md
```

Research is a flat directory of semantically named files (topics emerge later). From discussion onwards, each topic gets its own file per phase.

### Package Structure

This package provides:

```
skills/
├── technical-research/        # Phase 1: Explore and validate ideas
├── technical-discussion/      # Phase 2: Document discussions
├── technical-specification/   # Phase 3: Build validated specifications
├── technical-planning/        # Phase 4: Create implementation plans
├── technical-implementation/  # Phase 5: Execute via TDD
└── technical-review/          # Phase 6: Validate against artifacts

commands/
├── start-research.md          # Begin research exploration
├── start-discussion.md        # Begin technical discussions
├── start-specification.md     # Begin specification building
├── start-planning.md          # Begin implementation planning
└── interview.md               # Focused questioning mode

agents/
└── chain-verifier.md          # Parallel task verification for review
```

## Skills

| Skill | Phase | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| [**technical-research**](skills/technical-research/) | 1 | Explore ideas from their earliest seed. Investigate market fit, technical feasibility, business viability. Free-flowing exploration across technical, business, and market domains. |
| [**technical-discussion**](skills/technical-discussion/) | 2 | Document technical discussions as expert architect and meeting assistant. Captures context, decisions, edge cases, competing solutions, debates, and rationale. |
| [**technical-specification**](skills/technical-specification/) | 3 | Build validated specifications from discussion documents through collaborative refinement. Filters hallucinations, enriches gaps, produces standalone spec. |
| [**technical-planning**](skills/technical-planning/) | 4 | Transform specifications into actionable implementation plans with phases, tasks, and acceptance criteria. Supports multiple output formats. |
| [**technical-implementation**](skills/technical-implementation/) | 5 | Execute implementation plans using strict TDD workflow. Writes tests first, implements to pass, commits frequently, and gates phases on user approval. |
| [**technical-review**](skills/technical-review/) | 6 | Review completed implementation against specification requirements and plan acceptance criteria. Uses parallel subagents for efficient chain verification. Produces structured feedback without fixing code. |

### technical-research

Acts as **research partner** with broad expertise spanning technical, product, business, and market domains.

**Use when:**
- Exploring a new idea from its earliest seed
- Investigating market fit, competitors, or positioning
- Validating technical feasibility before committing to build
- Learning and exploration without necessarily building anything
- Brain dumping early thoughts before formal discussion

**What it does:**
- Explores ideas freely across technical, business, and market domains
- Prompts before documenting: "Shall I capture that?"
- Creates research documents that may seed the discussion phase
- Follows tangents and goes broad when useful

### technical-discussion

Acts as both **expert software architect** (participating in discussions) and **documentation assistant** (capturing them) simultaneously.

**Use when:**
- Discussing or exploring architecture and design decisions
- Working through edge cases before specification
- Documenting technical decisions and their rationale
- Capturing competing solutions and why certain choices were made

**What it captures:**
- Back-and-forth debates showing how decisions were reached
- Small details and edge cases that were discussed
- Competing solutions and why some won over others
- The journey—false paths, "aha" moments, course corrections

### technical-specification

Acts as **expert technical architect** and **specification builder**. Transforms discussion documents into validated, standalone specifications.

**Use when:**
- Ready to validate and refine discussion content
- Need to filter potential hallucinations or inaccuracies from source material
- Building a standalone document that planning can execute against
- Converting discussions into verified requirements

**What it produces:**
- Validated, standalone specification document
- Filtered content (hallucinations and inaccuracies removed)
- Enriched content (gaps filled through discussion)
- Clear bridge document for formal planning

### technical-planning

Converts specifications into structured implementation plans.

**Use when:**
- Ready to plan implementation after specification is complete
- Need to structure how to build something with phases and concrete steps
- Converting specification into actionable developer guidance

**What it produces:**
- Phased implementation plans with specific tasks
- Acceptance criteria at phase and task levels
- Multiple output formats: local markdown, Linear, Backlog.md, or Beads

### technical-implementation

Executes plans through strict TDD. Acts as an expert senior developer who builds quality software through disciplined test-driven development.

**Use when:**
- Implementing a plan from `docs/workflow/planning/{topic}.md`
- Ad hoc coding that should follow TDD and quality standards
- Bug fixes or features benefiting from structured implementation

**Hard rules:**
- No code before tests—write the failing test first
- No test changes to pass—fix the code, not the tests
- No scope expansion—if it's not in the plan, don't build it
- Commit after green—every passing test is a commit point

### technical-review

Reviews completed work with fresh perspective. Validates implementation against prior workflow artifacts without fixing code directly.

**Use when:**
- Implementation phase is complete
- User wants validation before merging/shipping
- Quality gate check needed after implementation

**What it checks:**
- Were specification requirements implemented?
- Were all plan acceptance criteria met?
- Do tests actually verify requirements?
- Does code follow project conventions?

## Commands

Slash commands to quickly invoke the workflow.

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| [**/start-research**](commands/start-research.md) | Begin research exploration. For early-stage ideas, feasibility checks, and broad exploration before formal discussion. |
| [**/start-discussion**](commands/start-discussion.md) | Begin a new technical discussion. Gathers topic, context, background information, and relevant codebase areas before starting documentation. |
| [**/start-specification**](commands/start-specification.md) | Start a specification session from an existing discussion. Validates and refines discussion content into a standalone specification. |
| [**/start-planning**](commands/start-planning.md) | Start a planning session from an existing specification. Creates implementation plans with phases, tasks, and acceptance criteria. Supports multiple output formats (markdown, Linear, Backlog.md, Beads). |
| [**/interview**](commands/interview.md) | Shift into focused questioning mode during research or discussion. Probes ideas with non-obvious questions, challenges assumptions, and surfaces concerns. |

## Agents

Subagents that skills can spawn for parallel task execution.

| Agent | Used By | Description |
|-------|---------|-------------|
| [**chain-verifier**](agents/chain-verifier.md) | technical-review | Verifies a single plan task was implemented correctly. Checks implementation, tests (not under/over-tested), and code quality. Multiple chain-verifiers run in parallel to verify ALL tasks efficiently. |

## Requirements

- PHP ^8.2
- [leeovery/claude-manager](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-manager) ^1.0 (installed automatically)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Whether it's:

- **Bug fixes** in the documentation or skill definitions
- **Improvements** to the workflow or templates
- **Discussion** about approaches and trade-offs
- **New skills** that complement the discuss-specify-plan-implement workflow

Please open an issue first to discuss significant changes.

## Related Packages

- [**claude-manager**](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-manager) — The plugin manager that powers skill installation
- [**claude-laravel**](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-laravel) — Laravel development skills for Claude Code
- [**claude-nuxt**](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-nuxt) — Nuxt.js development skills for Claude Code

## License

MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

---

<p align="center">
  <sub>Built with care by <a href="https://github.com/leeovery">Lee Overy</a></sub>
</p>

Commit message:

docs: add installation modes section to README
Document symlink and copy installation modes matching the
Claude Manager's new mode selection feature.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Claude Technical Workflows</h1>

<p align="center">
  <strong>Structured Discussion & Planning Skills for Claude Code</strong>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="#the-six-phase-workflow">Workflow</a> •
  <a href="#skills">Skills</a> •
  <a href="#commands">Commands</a> •
  <a href="#how-it-works">How It Works</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a>
</p>

---

## About

A structured approach to technical discussions and implementation planning with Claude Code. These skills enforce a deliberate **research-then-discuss-then-specify-then-plan-then-implement-then-review** workflow that captures context, decisions, and rationale before any code is written—then validates the work against those artifacts.

**Why this matters:** Complex features benefit from thorough discussion before implementation. These skills help you document the *what* and *why* before diving into the *how*—preserving architectural decisions, edge cases, and the reasoning behind choices that would otherwise be lost.

**This is a work in progress.** The workflow is being refined through real-world usage. Expect updates as patterns evolve.

## Installation

```bash
composer require --dev leeovery/claude-technical-workflows
```

That's it. The [Claude Manager](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-manager) handles everything else automatically.

### Installation Modes

On first install, you'll be prompted to choose an installation mode. This choice applies to all plugins managed by Claude Manager:

| Mode | Description |
|------|-------------|
| **Symlink** (default) | Assets stay in vendor/ with symlinks to `.claude/`. Gitignore is managed automatically. |
| **Copy** | Assets are copied to `.claude/` and become part of your repository. Ideal for Claude Code on the web where skills need to be available before `composer install` runs. |

See the [Claude Manager README](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-manager) for full details on switching modes and CLI commands.

## The Six-Phase Workflow

This package enforces a deliberate progression through six distinct phases:

```
┌───────────────┐   ┌───────────────┐   ┌───────────────┐   ┌───────────────┐   ┌───────────────┐   ┌───────────────┐
│   Research    │──▶│  Discussion   │──▶│ Specification │──▶│   Planning    │──▶│Implementation │──▶│    Review     │
│   (Phase 1)   │   │   (Phase 2)   │   │   (Phase 3)   │   │   (Phase 4)   │   │   (Phase 5)   │   │   (Phase 6)   │
├───────────────┤   ├───────────────┤   ├───────────────┤   ├───────────────┤   ├───────────────┤   ├───────────────┤
│ EXPLORING     │   │ WHAT & WHY    │   │ REFINING      │   │ HOW           │   │ DOING         │   │ VALIDATING    │
│               │   │               │   │               │   │               │   │               │   │               │
│ • Ideas       │   │ • Architecture│   │ • Validate    │   │ • Phases      │   │ • Tests first │   │ • Plan check  │
│ • Market      │   │ • Decisions   │   │ • Filter      │   │ • Tasks       │   │ • Then code   │   │ • Specs check │
│ • Viability   │   │ • Edge cases  │   │ • Enrich      │   │ • Criteria    │   │ • Commit often│   │ • Test quality│
│               │   │ • Rationale   │   │ • Standalone  │   │ • Outputs     │   │ • Phase gates │   │ • Code quality│
└───────────────┘   └───────────────┘   └───────────────┘   └───────────────┘   └───────────────┘   └───────────────┘
        ▲                   ▲                   ▲                   ▲                   ▲                   ▲
        │                   │                   │                   │                   │                   │
 technical-research  technical-discussion  technical-spec  technical-planning  technical-impl  technical-review
```

**Phase 1 - Research:** Explore ideas from their earliest seed. Investigate market fit, technical feasibility, business viability. Free-flowing exploration that may or may not lead to building something.

**Phase 2 - Discussion:** Captures the back-and-forth exploration of a problem. Documents competing solutions, why certain approaches won or lost, edge cases discovered, and the journey to decisions—not just the decisions themselves.

**Phase 3 - Specification:** Transforms discussion documentation into a validated, standalone specification. Filters hallucinations and inaccuracies, enriches gaps through discussion, and builds a document that planning can execute against without referencing other sources.

**Phase 4 - Planning:** Converts specifications into actionable implementation plans with phases, tasks, and acceptance criteria. Supports multiple output formats (local markdown, Linear, Backlog.md).

**Phase 5 - Implementation:** Executes the plan using strict TDD. Writes tests first, implements to pass, commits frequently, and stops for user approval between phases.

**Phase 6 - Review:** Validates completed work against specification requirements and plan acceptance criteria. The specification is the validated source of truth—earlier phases may contain rejected ideas that were intentionally filtered out. Provides structured feedback without fixing code directly.

## How It Works

This package depends on [`leeovery/claude-manager`](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-manager), which:

1. **Symlinks skills** into your project's `.claude/skills/` directory
2. **Symlinks commands** into your project's `.claude/commands/` directory
3. **Symlinks agents** into your project's `.claude/agents/` directory
4. **Manages your `.gitignore`** with a deterministic list of linked skills, commands, and agents
5. **Handles installation/removal** automatically via Composer hooks

You don't need to configure anything—just install and start discussing.

### Output Structure

Documents are stored using a **phase-first** organization:

```
docs/workflow/
├── research/              # Phase 1 - flat, semantically named files
│   ├── competitor-analysis.md
│   └── pricing-models.md
├── discussion/            # Phase 2 - one file per topic
│   └── {topic}.md
├── specification/         # Phase 3 - one file per topic
│   └── {topic}.md
└── planning/              # Phase 4 - one file per topic
    └── {topic}.md
```

Research is a flat directory of semantically named files (topics emerge later). From discussion onwards, each topic gets its own file per phase.

### Package Structure

This package provides:

```
skills/
├── technical-research/        # Phase 1: Explore and validate ideas
├── technical-discussion/      # Phase 2: Document discussions
├── technical-specification/   # Phase 3: Build validated specifications
├── technical-planning/        # Phase 4: Create implementation plans
├── technical-implementation/  # Phase 5: Execute via TDD
└── technical-review/          # Phase 6: Validate against artifacts

commands/
├── start-research.md          # Begin research exploration
├── start-discussion.md        # Begin technical discussions
├── start-specification.md     # Begin specification building
├── start-planning.md          # Begin implementation planning
└── interview.md               # Focused questioning mode

agents/
└── chain-verifier.md          # Parallel task verification for review
```

## Skills

| Skill | Phase | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| [**technical-research**](skills/technical-research/) | 1 | Explore ideas from their earliest seed. Investigate market fit, technical feasibility, business viability. Free-flowing exploration across technical, business, and market domains. |
| [**technical-discussion**](skills/technical-discussion/) | 2 | Document technical discussions as expert architect and meeting assistant. Captures context, decisions, edge cases, competing solutions, debates, and rationale. |
| [**technical-specification**](skills/technical-specification/) | 3 | Build validated specifications from discussion documents through collaborative refinement. Filters hallucinations, enriches gaps, produces standalone spec. |
| [**technical-planning**](skills/technical-planning/) | 4 | Transform specifications into actionable implementation plans with phases, tasks, and acceptance criteria. Supports multiple output formats. |
| [**technical-implementation**](skills/technical-implementation/) | 5 | Execute implementation plans using strict TDD workflow. Writes tests first, implements to pass, commits frequently, and gates phases on user approval. |
| [**technical-review**](skills/technical-review/) | 6 | Review completed implementation against specification requirements and plan acceptance criteria. Uses parallel subagents for efficient chain verification. Produces structured feedback without fixing code. |

### technical-research

Acts as **research partner** with broad expertise spanning technical, product, business, and market domains.

**Use when:**
- Exploring a new idea from its earliest seed
- Investigating market fit, competitors, or positioning
- Validating technical feasibility before committing to build
- Learning and exploration without necessarily building anything
- Brain dumping early thoughts before formal discussion

**What it does:**
- Explores ideas freely across technical, business, and market domains
- Prompts before documenting: "Shall I capture that?"
- Creates research documents that may seed the discussion phase
- Follows tangents and goes broad when useful

### technical-discussion

Acts as both **expert software architect** (participating in discussions) and **documentation assistant** (capturing them) simultaneously.

**Use when:**
- Discussing or exploring architecture and design decisions
- Working through edge cases before specification
- Documenting technical decisions and their rationale
- Capturing competing solutions and why certain choices were made

**What it captures:**
- Back-and-forth debates showing how decisions were reached
- Small details and edge cases that were discussed
- Competing solutions and why some won over others
- The journey—false paths, "aha" moments, course corrections

### technical-specification

Acts as **expert technical architect** and **specification builder**. Transforms discussion documents into validated, standalone specifications.

**Use when:**
- Ready to validate and refine discussion content
- Need to filter potential hallucinations or inaccuracies from source material
- Building a standalone document that planning can execute against
- Converting discussions into verified requirements

**What it produces:**
- Validated, standalone specification document
- Filtered content (hallucinations and inaccuracies removed)
- Enriched content (gaps filled through discussion)
- Clear bridge document for formal planning

### technical-planning

Converts specifications into structured implementation plans.

**Use when:**
- Ready to plan implementation after specification is complete
- Need to structure how to build something with phases and concrete steps
- Converting specification into actionable developer guidance

**What it produces:**
- Phased implementation plans with specific tasks
- Acceptance criteria at phase and task levels
- Multiple output formats: local markdown, Linear, Backlog.md, or Beads

### technical-implementation

Executes plans through strict TDD. Acts as an expert senior developer who builds quality software through disciplined test-driven development.

**Use when:**
- Implementing a plan from `docs/workflow/planning/{topic}.md`
- Ad hoc coding that should follow TDD and quality standards
- Bug fixes or features benefiting from structured implementation

**Hard rules:**
- No code before tests—write the failing test first
- No test changes to pass—fix the code, not the tests
- No scope expansion—if it's not in the plan, don't build it
- Commit after green—every passing test is a commit point

### technical-review

Reviews completed work with fresh perspective. Validates implementation against prior workflow artifacts without fixing code directly.

**Use when:**
- Implementation phase is complete
- User wants validation before merging/shipping
- Quality gate check needed after implementation

**What it checks:**
- Were specification requirements implemented?
- Were all plan acceptance criteria met?
- Do tests actually verify requirements?
- Does code follow project conventions?

## Commands

Slash commands to quickly invoke the workflow.

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| [**/start-research**](commands/start-research.md) | Begin research exploration. For early-stage ideas, feasibility checks, and broad exploration before formal discussion. |
| [**/start-discussion**](commands/start-discussion.md) | Begin a new technical discussion. Gathers topic, context, background information, and relevant codebase areas before starting documentation. |
| [**/start-specification**](commands/start-specification.md) | Start a specification session from an existing discussion. Validates and refines discussion content into a standalone specification. |
| [**/start-planning**](commands/start-planning.md) | Start a planning session from an existing specification. Creates implementation plans with phases, tasks, and acceptance criteria. Supports multiple output formats (markdown, Linear, Backlog.md, Beads). |
| [**/interview**](commands/interview.md) | Shift into focused questioning mode during research or discussion. Probes ideas with non-obvious questions, challenges assumptions, and surfaces concerns. |

## Agents

Subagents that skills can spawn for parallel task execution.

| Agent | Used By | Description |
|-------|---------|-------------|
| [**chain-verifier**](agents/chain-verifier.md) | technical-review | Verifies a single plan task was implemented correctly. Checks implementation, tests (not under/over-tested), and code quality. Multiple chain-verifiers run in parallel to verify ALL tasks efficiently. |

## Requirements

- PHP ^8.2
- [leeovery/claude-manager](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-manager) ^1.0 (installed automatically)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Whether it's:

- **Bug fixes** in the documentation or skill definitions
- **Improvements** to the workflow or templates
- **Discussion** about approaches and trade-offs
- **New skills** that complement the discuss-specify-plan-implement workflow

Please open an issue first to discuss significant changes.

## Related Packages

- [**claude-manager**](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-manager) — The plugin manager that powers skill installation
- [**claude-laravel**](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-laravel) — Laravel development skills for Claude Code
- [**claude-nuxt**](https://github.com/leeovery/claude-nuxt) — Nuxt.js development skills for Claude Code

## License

MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

---

<p align="center">
  <sub>Built with care by <a href="https://github.com/leeovery">Lee Overy</a></sub>
</p>
