skills/technical-research/references/research-guide.md, before:

# Research Exploration Guide

*Part of **[technical-research](../SKILL.md)***

---

## Your Expertise

You bring knowledge across the full landscape:

- **Technical**: Feasibility, architecture approaches, time to market, complexity
- **Business**: Pricing models, profitability, business models, unit economics
- **Market**: Competitors, market fit, timing, gaps, positioning
- **Product**: User needs, value proposition, differentiation

Don't constrain yourself. Research goes wherever it needs to go.

## Exploration Mindset

**Follow tangents**: If something interesting comes up, pursue it. Even mid-conversation.

**Go broad**: Technical feasibility, pricing, competitors, timing, market fit, profitability - explore whatever's relevant.

**Learning is valid**: Not everything leads to building something. Understanding and exploration have value on their own.

**Be honest**: If something seems flawed or risky, say so. Challenge assumptions.

## Questioning Technique

Use `/interview` for structured, iterative questioning. Good research questions:

- Reveal hidden complexity
- Surface concerns early
- Challenge comfortable assumptions
- Probe the "why" behind ideas

Ask one question at a time. Wait for the answer. Document. Then ask the next.

## Documentation Rhythm

**This is non-negotiable.** Documentation is the point of research. Follow this cycle:

```
Question → Answer → Document → Commit (every 2-3 insights) → Next Question
```

**After each meaningful exchange:**
1. Update the research doc immediately
2. Don't wait for a natural pause
3. Don't batch updates for later
4. Context can refresh at any time—uncommitted work is lost

**Commit triggers** (do it when any of these happen):
- 2-3 new insights documented
- Topic shifts direction
- 10+ minutes of discussion
- User takes a break
- Before any context refresh warning

## File Strategy

**Start with one file**: `docs/workflow/research/exploration.md`

Early research is messy. Topics aren't clear. You're following tangents, circling back, exploring broadly. Don't fight this by forcing structure too early.

**Create `exploration.md` immediately** when research begins. Write everything there.

**Let structure emerge**: Over multiple sessions, themes may become distinct. When they do, split into semantic files:
- `market-landscape.md`
- `technical-feasibility.md`
- `pricing-models.md`

**Periodic organization**: Every few sessions, review `exploration.md`:
- Are clear themes emerging? → Split them out
- Still fuzzy? → Keep exploring in single file
- Ready for deeper discussion? → Move themes to `docs/workflow/discussion/`

The discussion phase is where structure happens. Research is for discovery.

## Why This Matters

Context refresh erases memory. Discussions are hard to recreate—the ideas came fresh and won't come the same way twice. Every uncommitted insight is at risk.

The discipline of document-as-you-go also improves the research itself: writing forces clarity, exposes gaps, and prompts better follow-up questions.

Commit message:

Require commit and push after every insight, not batched
On Claude Code web, local commits don't persist between sessions.
Push is what actually saves work. Updated the documentation loop to:

1. Ask a question
2. Discuss the answer
3. Document the insight
4. Commit and push immediately
5. Repeat

No more batching commits. Every insight gets pushed before the next
question. This is more disciplined but necessary for web environments.

skills/technical-research/references/research-guide.md, after:

# Research Exploration Guide

*Part of **[technical-research](../SKILL.md)***

---

## Your Expertise

You bring knowledge across the full landscape:

- **Technical**: Feasibility, architecture approaches, time to market, complexity
- **Business**: Pricing models, profitability, business models, unit economics
- **Market**: Competitors, market fit, timing, gaps, positioning
- **Product**: User needs, value proposition, differentiation

Don't constrain yourself. Research goes wherever it needs to go.

## Exploration Mindset

**Follow tangents**: If something interesting comes up, pursue it. Even mid-conversation.

**Go broad**: Technical feasibility, pricing, competitors, timing, market fit, profitability - explore whatever's relevant.

**Learning is valid**: Not everything leads to building something. Understanding and exploration have value on their own.

**Be honest**: If something seems flawed or risky, say so. Challenge assumptions.

## Questioning Technique

Use `/interview` for structured, iterative questioning. Good research questions:

- Reveal hidden complexity
- Surface concerns early
- Challenge comfortable assumptions
- Probe the "why" behind ideas

Ask one question at a time. Wait for the answer. Document. Then ask the next.

## Documentation Rhythm

**This is non-negotiable.** Documentation is the point of research. Follow this cycle:

```
Question → Answer → Document → Commit and Push → Next Question
```

**After each meaningful exchange:**
1. Update the research doc
2. Commit and push immediately
3. Then ask the next question

Don't batch. Don't wait. Every insight gets pushed before moving on. Context can refresh at any time—unpushed work is lost.

## File Strategy

**Start with one file**: `docs/workflow/research/exploration.md`

Early research is messy. Topics aren't clear. You're following tangents, circling back, exploring broadly. Don't fight this by forcing structure too early.

**Create `exploration.md` immediately** when research begins. Write everything there.

**Let structure emerge**: Over multiple sessions, themes may become distinct. When they do, split into semantic files:
- `market-landscape.md`
- `technical-feasibility.md`
- `pricing-models.md`

**Periodic organization**: Every few sessions, review `exploration.md`:
- Are clear themes emerging? → Split them out
- Still fuzzy? → Keep exploring in single file
- Ready for deeper discussion? → Move themes to `docs/workflow/discussion/`

The discussion phase is where structure happens. Research is for discovery.

## Why This Matters

Context refresh erases memory. Discussions are hard to recreate—the ideas came fresh and won't come the same way twice. Every unpushed insight is at risk.

The discipline of document-as-you-go also improves the research itself: writing forces clarity, exposes gaps, and prompts better follow-up questions.
