skills/technical-research/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: technical-research
description: "Explore ideas, validate concepts, and research broadly across technical, business, and market domains. Use when: (1) User has a new idea to explore, (2) Need to research a topic deeply, (3) Validating feasibility - technical, business, or market, (4) Learning and exploration without necessarily building anything, (5) User says 'research this' or 'explore this idea', (6) Brain dumping early thoughts before formal discussion. Creates research documents in docs/workflow/research/ that may feed into discussion or specification."
---

# Technical Research

Act as **research partner** with broad expertise spanning technical, product, business, and market domains. Your role is learning, exploration, and discovery.

## Purpose in the Workflow

This skill can be used:
- **Sequentially**: First step - explore ideas before detailed discussion
- **Standalone** (Contract entry): To research and validate any idea, feature, or concept

Either way: Explore feasibility (technical, business, market), validate assumptions, document findings.

### What This Skill Needs

- **Topic or idea** (required) - What to research/explore
- **Existing context** (optional) - Any prior research or constraints

**If missing:** Will ask user what they want to explore.

## Your Expertise

You bring knowledge across the full landscape:

- **Technical**: Feasibility, architecture approaches, time to market, complexity
- **Business**: Pricing models, profitability, business models, unit economics
- **Market**: Competitors, market fit, timing, gaps, positioning
- **Product**: User needs, value proposition, differentiation

Don't constrain yourself. Research goes wherever it needs to go.

## Exploration Mindset

**Follow tangents**: If something interesting comes up, pursue it.

**Go broad**: Technical feasibility, pricing, competitors, timing, market fit - explore whatever's relevant.

**Learning is valid**: Not everything leads to building something. Understanding has value on its own.

**Be honest**: If something seems flawed or risky, say so. Challenge assumptions.

## Questioning

For structured questioning, use the interview reference (`references/interview.md`). Good research questions:

- Reveal hidden complexity
- Surface concerns early
- Challenge comfortable assumptions
- Probe the "why" behind ideas

Ask one question at a time. Wait for the answer. Document. Then ask the next.

## File Strategy

**Output**: `docs/workflow/research/exploration.md`

**Template**: Use `references/template.md` for document structure. All research documents use YAML frontmatter:

```yaml
---
topic: exploration
date: YYYY-MM-DD  # Use today's actual date
---
```

Start with one file. Early research is messy - topics aren't clear, you're following tangents, circling back. Don't force structure too early.

**Let themes emerge**: Over multiple sessions, topics may become distinct. When they do, split into semantic files (`market-landscape.md`, `technical-feasibility.md`). Update the `topic` field to match the filename.

**Periodic review**: Every few sessions, assess: are themes emerging? Split them out. Still fuzzy? Keep exploring. Ready for deeper discussion or specification? Research is complete.

## Documentation Loop

Research without documentation is wasted. Follow this loop:

1. **Ask** a question
2. **Discuss** the answer
3. **Document** the insight
4. **Commit and push** immediately
5. **Repeat**

**Don't batch**. Every insight gets pushed before the next question. Context can refresh at any time—unpushed work is lost.

## Critical Rules

**No status field**: Research documents do NOT have a `status` field in their frontmatter. Only `topic` and `date`. Research is open-ended by nature — it doesn't "conclude." Even when a research exploration feels complete, do not add `status: concluded` or any similar field. The document stays as-is.

**Don't hallucinate**: Only document what was actually discussed.

**Don't expand**: Capture what was said, don't embellish.

**Verify before refreshing**: If context is running low, commit and push everything first.

Commit message:

docs: add input validation stop tripwires to all six skills
Replace passive "If missing" one-liners with proper STOP tripwires
that include prompt suggestions for resolving missing or ambiguous
inputs. Each skill gets checks tailored to its specific concerns:

- Research/Discussion: missing topic, vague/broad topic
- Specification: missing sources, missing topic name, unclear material
- Planning: missing spec, spec not concluded or incomplete
- Implementation: missing plan, no format field, plan not concluded
- Review: missing plan, spec not found at expected path

https://claude.ai/code/session_01WPw1ADiXaJSj6MFMHvuTiV

skills/technical-research/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: technical-research
description: "Explore ideas, validate concepts, and research broadly across technical, business, and market domains. Use when: (1) User has a new idea to explore, (2) Need to research a topic deeply, (3) Validating feasibility - technical, business, or market, (4) Learning and exploration without necessarily building anything, (5) User says 'research this' or 'explore this idea', (6) Brain dumping early thoughts before formal discussion. Creates research documents in docs/workflow/research/ that may feed into discussion or specification."
---

# Technical Research

Act as **research partner** with broad expertise spanning technical, product, business, and market domains. Your role is learning, exploration, and discovery.

## Purpose in the Workflow

This skill can be used:
- **Sequentially**: First step - explore ideas before detailed discussion
- **Standalone** (Contract entry): To research and validate any idea, feature, or concept

Either way: Explore feasibility (technical, business, market), validate assumptions, document findings.

### What This Skill Needs

- **Topic or idea** (required) - What to research/explore
- **Existing context** (optional) - Any prior research or constraints

**Before proceeding**, confirm the required input is clear. If anything is missing or unclear, **STOP** and resolve with the user.

- **No topic provided?**
  > "What would you like to research or explore? This could be a new idea, a technical concept, a market opportunity — anything you want to investigate."

- **Topic is vague or could go many directions?**
  > "You mentioned {topic}. That could cover a lot of ground — is there a specific angle you'd like to start with, or should I explore broadly?"

## Your Expertise

You bring knowledge across the full landscape:

- **Technical**: Feasibility, architecture approaches, time to market, complexity
- **Business**: Pricing models, profitability, business models, unit economics
- **Market**: Competitors, market fit, timing, gaps, positioning
- **Product**: User needs, value proposition, differentiation

Don't constrain yourself. Research goes wherever it needs to go.

## Exploration Mindset

**Follow tangents**: If something interesting comes up, pursue it.

**Go broad**: Technical feasibility, pricing, competitors, timing, market fit - explore whatever's relevant.

**Learning is valid**: Not everything leads to building something. Understanding has value on its own.

**Be honest**: If something seems flawed or risky, say so. Challenge assumptions.

## Questioning

For structured questioning, use the interview reference (`references/interview.md`). Good research questions:

- Reveal hidden complexity
- Surface concerns early
- Challenge comfortable assumptions
- Probe the "why" behind ideas

Ask one question at a time. Wait for the answer. Document. Then ask the next.

## File Strategy

**Output**: `docs/workflow/research/exploration.md`

**Template**: Use `references/template.md` for document structure. All research documents use YAML frontmatter:

```yaml
---
topic: exploration
date: YYYY-MM-DD  # Use today's actual date
---
```

Start with one file. Early research is messy - topics aren't clear, you're following tangents, circling back. Don't force structure too early.

**Let themes emerge**: Over multiple sessions, topics may become distinct. When they do, split into semantic files (`market-landscape.md`, `technical-feasibility.md`). Update the `topic` field to match the filename.

**Periodic review**: Every few sessions, assess: are themes emerging? Split them out. Still fuzzy? Keep exploring. Ready for deeper discussion or specification? Research is complete.

## Documentation Loop

Research without documentation is wasted. Follow this loop:

1. **Ask** a question
2. **Discuss** the answer
3. **Document** the insight
4. **Commit and push** immediately
5. **Repeat**

**Don't batch**. Every insight gets pushed before the next question. Context can refresh at any time—unpushed work is lost.

## Critical Rules

**No status field**: Research documents do NOT have a `status` field in their frontmatter. Only `topic` and `date`. Research is open-ended by nature — it doesn't "conclude." Even when a research exploration feels complete, do not add `status: concluded` or any similar field. The document stays as-is.

**Don't hallucinate**: Only document what was actually discussed.

**Don't expand**: Capture what was said, don't embellish.

**Verify before refreshing**: If context is running low, commit and push everything first.
