SPEC-FLOWS/05-multiple-no-specs-stale-cache.md, before:

# Flow: Multiple Discussions, No Specs, Stale Cache (Output 7)

Cache exists but discussions have changed since analysis. Auto-proceeds to re-analysis.

**Entry state:** 3 concluded discussions, 1 in-progress, 0 specs, stale cache

---

## Scenario A: User Confirms Analysis → Picks Grouping

**Steps:** 0 → 1 → 2 → 3 → 4 → 5 → 6 → 7 → 8

### Step 0: Run Migrations

```
[SKIP] No changes needed
```

### Step 1: Run Discovery

Discovery returns:
```yaml
discussions:
  - name: auth-flow
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: false
  - name: api-design
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: false
  - name: error-handling
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: false
  - name: rate-limiting
    status: in-progress
    has_individual_spec: false
concluded_count: 3
spec_count: 0
cache:
  status: "stale"
  reason: "Cache exists but checksums differ — discussions have changed"
  generated: "2026-01-20T10:00:00Z"
  anchored_names: []
```

### Step 2: Check Prerequisites — Passes

### Step 3: Route and Display (Output 7)

Stale cache, no specs → auto-proceed to re-analysis.

```
Specification Overview

3 concluded discussions found. No specifications exist yet.

Concluded discussions:
  • auth-flow
  • api-design
  • error-handling

---
Discussions not ready for specification:
These discussions are still in progress and must be concluded
before they can be included in a specification.
  · rate-limiting (in-progress)

---
A previous grouping analysis exists but is outdated — discussions
have changed since it was created.

These discussions will be re-analyzed for natural groupings. Results
are cached and reused until discussions change.

Proceed with analysis? (y/n)
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: y

Claude deletes the stale cache:
```bash
rm docs/workflow/.cache/discussion-consolidation-analysis.md
```

### Step 4: Gather Analysis Context

```
Before analyzing, is there anything about how these discussions relate
that would help me group them appropriately?

For example:
- Topics that are part of the same feature
- Dependencies between topics
- Topics that must stay separate

Your context (or 'none'):
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: none

### Step 5: Analyze Discussions + Cache

Claude reads all 3 concluded discussions and forms groupings. Saves to cache.

### Step 6: Display Groupings (Output 6 format)

```
Specification Overview

Recommended breakdown for specifications with their source discussions.

1. API Authentication
   └─ Spec: none
   └─ Discussions:
      ├─ auth-flow (ready)
      └─ api-design (ready)

2. Error Handling
   └─ Spec: none
   └─ Discussions:
      └─ error-handling (ready)

---
Discussions not ready for specification:
These discussions are still in progress and must be concluded
before they can be included in a specification.
  · rate-limiting (in-progress)

---
Key:

  Discussion status:
    ready — concluded and available to be specified

  Spec status:
    none — no specification file exists yet

---
Tip: To restructure groupings or pull a discussion into its own
specification, choose "Re-analyze" and provide guidance.

---
What would you like to do?

1. Start "API Authentication" — 2 ready discussions
2. Start "Error Handling" — 1 ready discussion
3. Unify all into single specification
4. Re-analyze groupings

Enter choice (1-4):
```

Flow continues to Steps 7 → 8 as normal.

---

## Scenario B: User Declines Analysis at Step 3

**Steps:** 0 → 1 → 2 → 3 (STOP)

Steps 0-3 identical to Scenario A up to the confirmation.

#### User responds: n

```
Understood. You can run /start-discussion to continue working on
discussions, or re-run this command when ready.
```

**Command ends.** Control returns to the user.

---

## Note

This flow is functionally identical to Output 5 (no cache). The only difference is the initial message in Step 3 — it mentions the stale cache rather than describing grouping analysis from scratch. The steps after confirming are identical.

Commit message:

docs: add inline explanations to meta menu options
Add brief explanations under "Analyze for groupings", "Unify all
into single specification", and "Re-analyze groupings" menu options.
These help users understand what each action does before choosing.

Explanations vary by context: "no specs" variants mention guidance,
"with specs" variants mention name preservation and superseding.
Individual spec picks (Start/Continue/Refine) are self-explanatory
and left without explanations.

SPEC-FLOWS/05-multiple-no-specs-stale-cache.md, after:

# Flow: Multiple Discussions, No Specs, Stale Cache (Output 7)

Cache exists but discussions have changed since analysis. Auto-proceeds to re-analysis.

**Entry state:** 3 concluded discussions, 1 in-progress, 0 specs, stale cache

---

## Scenario A: User Confirms Analysis → Picks Grouping

**Steps:** 0 → 1 → 2 → 3 → 4 → 5 → 6 → 7 → 8

### Step 0: Run Migrations

```
[SKIP] No changes needed
```

### Step 1: Run Discovery

Discovery returns:
```yaml
discussions:
  - name: auth-flow
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: false
  - name: api-design
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: false
  - name: error-handling
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: false
  - name: rate-limiting
    status: in-progress
    has_individual_spec: false
concluded_count: 3
spec_count: 0
cache:
  status: "stale"
  reason: "Cache exists but checksums differ — discussions have changed"
  generated: "2026-01-20T10:00:00Z"
  anchored_names: []
```

### Step 2: Check Prerequisites — Passes

### Step 3: Route and Display (Output 7)

Stale cache, no specs → auto-proceed to re-analysis.

```
Specification Overview

3 concluded discussions found. No specifications exist yet.

Concluded discussions:
  • auth-flow
  • api-design
  • error-handling

---
Discussions not ready for specification:
These discussions are still in progress and must be concluded
before they can be included in a specification.
  · rate-limiting (in-progress)

---
A previous grouping analysis exists but is outdated — discussions
have changed since it was created.

These discussions will be re-analyzed for natural groupings. Results
are cached and reused until discussions change.

Proceed with analysis? (y/n)
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: y

Claude deletes the stale cache:
```bash
rm docs/workflow/.cache/discussion-consolidation-analysis.md
```

### Step 4: Gather Analysis Context

```
Before analyzing, is there anything about how these discussions relate
that would help me group them appropriately?

For example:
- Topics that are part of the same feature
- Dependencies between topics
- Topics that must stay separate

Your context (or 'none'):
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: none

### Step 5: Analyze Discussions + Cache

Claude reads all 3 concluded discussions and forms groupings. Saves to cache.

### Step 6: Display Groupings (Output 6 format)

```
Specification Overview

Recommended breakdown for specifications with their source discussions.

1. API Authentication
   └─ Spec: none
   └─ Discussions:
      ├─ auth-flow (ready)
      └─ api-design (ready)

2. Error Handling
   └─ Spec: none
   └─ Discussions:
      └─ error-handling (ready)

---
Discussions not ready for specification:
These discussions are still in progress and must be concluded
before they can be included in a specification.
  · rate-limiting (in-progress)

---
Key:

  Discussion status:
    ready — concluded and available to be specified

  Spec status:
    none — no specification file exists yet

---
Tip: To restructure groupings or pull a discussion into its own
specification, choose "Re-analyze" and provide guidance.

---
What would you like to do?

1. Start "API Authentication" — 2 ready discussions
2. Start "Error Handling" — 1 ready discussion
3. Unify all into single specification
   All discussions are combined into one specification instead
   of following the recommended groupings.
4. Re-analyze groupings
   Current groupings are discarded and rebuilt. You can provide
   guidance on how to organize them.

Enter choice (1-4):
```

Flow continues to Steps 7 → 8 as normal.

---

## Scenario B: User Declines Analysis at Step 3

**Steps:** 0 → 1 → 2 → 3 (STOP)

Steps 0-3 identical to Scenario A up to the confirmation.

#### User responds: n

```
Understood. You can run /start-discussion to continue working on
discussions, or re-run this command when ready.
```

**Command ends.** Control returns to the user.

---

## Note

This flow is functionally identical to Output 5 (no cache). The only difference is the initial message in Step 3 — it mentions the stale cache rather than describing grouping analysis from scratch. The steps after confirming are identical.
