SPEC-FLOWS/06-multiple-with-specs-no-cache.md, before:

# Flow: Multiple Discussions, With Specs, No Cache (Output 8)

Specs exist but no grouping analysis has been done. Show existing specs, offer analysis.

**Entry state:** 5 concluded discussions, 1 in-progress, 2 specs, no cache

---

## Scenario A: User Chooses "Analyze for Groupings"

**Steps:** 0 → 1 → 2 → 3 → 4 → 5 → 6 → 7 → 8

### Step 0: Run Migrations

```
[SKIP] No changes needed
```

### Step 1: Run Discovery

Discovery returns:
```yaml
discussions:
  - name: auth-flow
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: true
    spec_status: in-progress
  - name: user-sessions
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: true
    spec_status: in-progress
  - name: caching-layer
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: true
    spec_status: concluded
  - name: api-design
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: false
  - name: error-handling
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: false
  - name: rate-limiting
    status: in-progress
    has_individual_spec: false
concluded_count: 5
spec_count: 2
specifications:
  - name: authentication-system
    status: in-progress
    sources:
      - name: auth-flow
        status: incorporated
      - name: user-sessions
        status: incorporated
  - name: caching-layer
    status: concluded
    sources:
      - name: caching-layer
        status: incorporated
cache:
  status: "none"
  reason: "No cache file exists"
```

### Step 2: Check Prerequisites — Passes

### Step 3: Route and Display (Output 8)

Specs exist, no cache → show specs, recommend analysis.

```
Specification Overview

5 concluded discussions found. 2 specifications exist.

Existing specifications:

1. Authentication System
   └─ Spec: in-progress (2 of 2 sources extracted)
   └─ Discussions:
      ├─ auth-flow (extracted)
      └─ user-sessions (extracted)

2. Caching Layer
   └─ Spec: concluded (1 of 1 sources extracted)
   └─ Discussions:
      └─ caching-layer (extracted)

Concluded discussions not in a specification:
  • api-design
  • error-handling

---
Discussions not ready for specification:
These discussions are still in progress and must be concluded
before they can be included in a specification.
  · rate-limiting (in-progress)

---
Key:

  Discussion status:
    extracted — content has been incorporated into the specification

  Spec status:
    in-progress — specification work is ongoing
    concluded   — specification is complete

---
No grouping analysis exists.

1. Analyze for groupings (recommended)
   All discussions are analyzed for natural groupings. Existing
   specification names are preserved.
2. Continue "Authentication System" — in-progress
3. Continue "Caching Layer" — concluded

Enter choice (1-3):
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: 1

### Step 4: Gather Analysis Context

```
Before analyzing, is there anything about how these discussions relate
that would help me group them appropriately?

For example:
- Topics that are part of the same feature
- Dependencies between topics
- Topics that must stay separate

Your context (or 'none'):
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: api-design and error-handling go together. The auth and caching specs are fine as they are.

### Step 5: Analyze Discussions + Cache

Claude reads all 5 concluded discussions. Considers existing specs and user context. Forms groupings preserving existing spec names (anchored names will apply on subsequent runs).

Cache written to `docs/workflow/.cache/discussion-consolidation-analysis.md`:
```markdown
---
checksum: def456...
generated: 2026-01-26T15:00:00Z
discussion_files:
  - auth-flow.md
  - user-sessions.md
  - caching-layer.md
  - api-design.md
  - error-handling.md
---

# Discussion Consolidation Analysis

## Recommended Groupings

### Authentication System
- **auth-flow**: Core authentication mechanisms
- **user-sessions**: Session management tied to auth

**Coupling**: Existing spec covers both. User confirmed this grouping is correct.

### API Design
- **api-design**: API structure and endpoints
- **error-handling**: Error handling patterns for the API

**Coupling**: User requested these be combined.

### Caching Layer
- **caching-layer**: Caching strategies and invalidation

**Coupling**: Standalone topic with completed spec. User confirmed this is correct.

## Analysis Notes
User confirmed existing specs (Authentication System, Caching Layer) are correctly scoped. api-design and error-handling grouped per user guidance.
```

### Step 6: Display Groupings (Output 9 format)

```
Specification Overview

Recommended breakdown for specifications with their source discussions.

1. Authentication System
   └─ Spec: in-progress (2 of 2 sources extracted)
   └─ Discussions:
      ├─ auth-flow (extracted)
      └─ user-sessions (extracted)

2. API Design
   └─ Spec: none
   └─ Discussions:
      ├─ api-design (ready)
      └─ error-handling (ready)

3. Caching Layer
   └─ Spec: concluded (1 of 1 sources extracted)
   └─ Discussions:
      └─ caching-layer (extracted)

---
Discussions not ready for specification:
These discussions are still in progress and must be concluded
before they can be included in a specification.
  · rate-limiting (in-progress)

---
Key:

  Discussion status:
    extracted — content has been incorporated into the specification
    ready     — concluded and available to be specified

  Spec status:
    none        — no specification file exists yet
    in-progress — specification work is ongoing
    concluded   — specification is complete

---
Tip: To restructure groupings or pull a discussion into its own
specification, choose "Re-analyze" and provide guidance.

---
What would you like to do?

1. Continue "Authentication System" — all sources extracted
2. Start "API Design" — 2 ready discussions
3. Refine "Caching Layer" — concluded spec
4. Unify all into single specification
   All discussions are combined into one specification. Existing
   specifications are incorporated and superseded.
5. Re-analyze groupings
   Current groupings are discarded and rebuilt. Existing
   specification names are preserved.

Enter choice (1-5):
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: 2

### Step 7: Confirm Selection

```
Creating specification: API Design

Sources:
  • api-design
  • error-handling

Output: docs/workflow/specification/api-design.md

Proceed? (y/n)
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: y

### Step 8: Invoke Skill

```
Specification session for: API Design

Sources:
- docs/workflow/discussion/api-design.md
- docs/workflow/discussion/error-handling.md

Output: docs/workflow/specification/api-design.md

---
Invoke the technical-specification skill.
```

**Command complete.** Skill takes over.

---

## Scenario B: User Chooses "Continue Existing Spec"

**Steps:** 0 → 1 → 2 → 3 → 7 → 8

Steps 0-3 identical to Scenario A.

#### User responds: 2 (Continue "Authentication System")

### Step 7: Confirm Selection

```
Continuing specification: Authentication System

Existing: docs/workflow/specification/authentication-system.md (in-progress)

All sources extracted:
  • auth-flow
  • user-sessions

Proceed? (y/n)
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: y

### Step 8: Invoke Skill

```
Specification session for: Authentication System

Continuing existing: docs/workflow/specification/authentication-system.md

Sources for reference:
- docs/workflow/discussion/auth-flow.md
- docs/workflow/discussion/user-sessions.md

Context: This specification already exists. Review and refine it based on the source discussions.

---
Invoke the technical-specification skill.
```

**Command complete.** Skill takes over.

---

## Scenario C: User Declines at Confirm

**Steps:** 0 → 1 → 2 → 3 → 7 → (decline) → back to 3

Steps 0-3 identical. User picks option 2 (Continue "Authentication System").

### Step 7: Confirm Selection

```
Continuing specification: Authentication System

Existing: docs/workflow/specification/authentication-system.md (in-progress)

All sources extracted:
  • auth-flow
  • user-sessions

Proceed? (y/n)
```

#### User responds: n

Returns to Step 3 display (same output as before). User can make a different choice.

```
Specification Overview

5 concluded discussions found. 2 specifications exist.

...same Output 8 display...

Enter choice (1-3):
```

**STOP.** Wait for user to make a different selection.

Commit message:

docs: mention guidance step in Analyze/Re-analyze explanations
Both "Analyze for groupings" and "Re-analyze groupings" lead to
the context gathering step where users can provide guidance. The
inline explanations now mention this so users know they'll be
asked before analysis begins.

SPEC-FLOWS/06-multiple-with-specs-no-cache.md, after:

# Flow: Multiple Discussions, With Specs, No Cache (Output 8)

Specs exist but no grouping analysis has been done. Show existing specs, offer analysis.

**Entry state:** 5 concluded discussions, 1 in-progress, 2 specs, no cache

---

## Scenario A: User Chooses "Analyze for Groupings"

**Steps:** 0 → 1 → 2 → 3 → 4 → 5 → 6 → 7 → 8

### Step 0: Run Migrations

```
[SKIP] No changes needed
```

### Step 1: Run Discovery

Discovery returns:
```yaml
discussions:
  - name: auth-flow
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: true
    spec_status: in-progress
  - name: user-sessions
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: true
    spec_status: in-progress
  - name: caching-layer
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: true
    spec_status: concluded
  - name: api-design
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: false
  - name: error-handling
    status: concluded
    has_individual_spec: false
  - name: rate-limiting
    status: in-progress
    has_individual_spec: false
concluded_count: 5
spec_count: 2
specifications:
  - name: authentication-system
    status: in-progress
    sources:
      - name: auth-flow
        status: incorporated
      - name: user-sessions
        status: incorporated
  - name: caching-layer
    status: concluded
    sources:
      - name: caching-layer
        status: incorporated
cache:
  status: "none"
  reason: "No cache file exists"
```

### Step 2: Check Prerequisites — Passes

### Step 3: Route and Display (Output 8)

Specs exist, no cache → show specs, recommend analysis.

```
Specification Overview

5 concluded discussions found. 2 specifications exist.

Existing specifications:

1. Authentication System
   └─ Spec: in-progress (2 of 2 sources extracted)
   └─ Discussions:
      ├─ auth-flow (extracted)
      └─ user-sessions (extracted)

2. Caching Layer
   └─ Spec: concluded (1 of 1 sources extracted)
   └─ Discussions:
      └─ caching-layer (extracted)

Concluded discussions not in a specification:
  • api-design
  • error-handling

---
Discussions not ready for specification:
These discussions are still in progress and must be concluded
before they can be included in a specification.
  · rate-limiting (in-progress)

---
Key:

  Discussion status:
    extracted — content has been incorporated into the specification

  Spec status:
    in-progress — specification work is ongoing
    concluded   — specification is complete

---
No grouping analysis exists.

1. Analyze for groupings (recommended)
   All discussions are analyzed for natural groupings. Existing
   specification names are preserved. You can provide guidance
   in the next step.
2. Continue "Authentication System" — in-progress
3. Continue "Caching Layer" — concluded

Enter choice (1-3):
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: 1

### Step 4: Gather Analysis Context

```
Before analyzing, is there anything about how these discussions relate
that would help me group them appropriately?

For example:
- Topics that are part of the same feature
- Dependencies between topics
- Topics that must stay separate

Your context (or 'none'):
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: api-design and error-handling go together. The auth and caching specs are fine as they are.

### Step 5: Analyze Discussions + Cache

Claude reads all 5 concluded discussions. Considers existing specs and user context. Forms groupings preserving existing spec names (anchored names will apply on subsequent runs).

Cache written to `docs/workflow/.cache/discussion-consolidation-analysis.md`:
```markdown
---
checksum: def456...
generated: 2026-01-26T15:00:00Z
discussion_files:
  - auth-flow.md
  - user-sessions.md
  - caching-layer.md
  - api-design.md
  - error-handling.md
---

# Discussion Consolidation Analysis

## Recommended Groupings

### Authentication System
- **auth-flow**: Core authentication mechanisms
- **user-sessions**: Session management tied to auth

**Coupling**: Existing spec covers both. User confirmed this grouping is correct.

### API Design
- **api-design**: API structure and endpoints
- **error-handling**: Error handling patterns for the API

**Coupling**: User requested these be combined.

### Caching Layer
- **caching-layer**: Caching strategies and invalidation

**Coupling**: Standalone topic with completed spec. User confirmed this is correct.

## Analysis Notes
User confirmed existing specs (Authentication System, Caching Layer) are correctly scoped. api-design and error-handling grouped per user guidance.
```

### Step 6: Display Groupings (Output 9 format)

```
Specification Overview

Recommended breakdown for specifications with their source discussions.

1. Authentication System
   └─ Spec: in-progress (2 of 2 sources extracted)
   └─ Discussions:
      ├─ auth-flow (extracted)
      └─ user-sessions (extracted)

2. API Design
   └─ Spec: none
   └─ Discussions:
      ├─ api-design (ready)
      └─ error-handling (ready)

3. Caching Layer
   └─ Spec: concluded (1 of 1 sources extracted)
   └─ Discussions:
      └─ caching-layer (extracted)

---
Discussions not ready for specification:
These discussions are still in progress and must be concluded
before they can be included in a specification.
  · rate-limiting (in-progress)

---
Key:

  Discussion status:
    extracted — content has been incorporated into the specification
    ready     — concluded and available to be specified

  Spec status:
    none        — no specification file exists yet
    in-progress — specification work is ongoing
    concluded   — specification is complete

---
Tip: To restructure groupings or pull a discussion into its own
specification, choose "Re-analyze" and provide guidance.

---
What would you like to do?

1. Continue "Authentication System" — all sources extracted
2. Start "API Design" — 2 ready discussions
3. Refine "Caching Layer" — concluded spec
4. Unify all into single specification
   All discussions are combined into one specification. Existing
   specifications are incorporated and superseded.
5. Re-analyze groupings
   Current groupings are discarded and rebuilt. Existing
   specification names are preserved. You can provide guidance
   in the next step.

Enter choice (1-5):
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: 2

### Step 7: Confirm Selection

```
Creating specification: API Design

Sources:
  • api-design
  • error-handling

Output: docs/workflow/specification/api-design.md

Proceed? (y/n)
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: y

### Step 8: Invoke Skill

```
Specification session for: API Design

Sources:
- docs/workflow/discussion/api-design.md
- docs/workflow/discussion/error-handling.md

Output: docs/workflow/specification/api-design.md

---
Invoke the technical-specification skill.
```

**Command complete.** Skill takes over.

---

## Scenario B: User Chooses "Continue Existing Spec"

**Steps:** 0 → 1 → 2 → 3 → 7 → 8

Steps 0-3 identical to Scenario A.

#### User responds: 2 (Continue "Authentication System")

### Step 7: Confirm Selection

```
Continuing specification: Authentication System

Existing: docs/workflow/specification/authentication-system.md (in-progress)

All sources extracted:
  • auth-flow
  • user-sessions

Proceed? (y/n)
```

**STOP.** Wait for user.

#### User responds: y

### Step 8: Invoke Skill

```
Specification session for: Authentication System

Continuing existing: docs/workflow/specification/authentication-system.md

Sources for reference:
- docs/workflow/discussion/auth-flow.md
- docs/workflow/discussion/user-sessions.md

Context: This specification already exists. Review and refine it based on the source discussions.

---
Invoke the technical-specification skill.
```

**Command complete.** Skill takes over.

---

## Scenario C: User Declines at Confirm

**Steps:** 0 → 1 → 2 → 3 → 7 → (decline) → back to 3

Steps 0-3 identical. User picks option 2 (Continue "Authentication System").

### Step 7: Confirm Selection

```
Continuing specification: Authentication System

Existing: docs/workflow/specification/authentication-system.md (in-progress)

All sources extracted:
  • auth-flow
  • user-sessions

Proceed? (y/n)
```

#### User responds: n

Returns to Step 3 display (same output as before). User can make a different choice.

```
Specification Overview

5 concluded discussions found. 2 specifications exist.

...same Output 8 display...

Enter choice (1-3):
```

**STOP.** Wait for user to make a different selection.
