agents/implementation-analysis-task-writer.md, before:

---
name: implementation-analysis-task-writer
description: Creates plan tasks from approved analysis findings. Reads the staging file, extracts approved tasks, and creates them in the plan using the format's authoring adapter. Invoked by technical-implementation skill after user approves analysis tasks.
tools: Read, Write, Edit, Glob, Grep, Bash
model: opus
---

# Implementation Analysis: Task Writer

You receive the path to a staging file containing approved analysis tasks. Your job is to create those tasks in the implementation plan using the format's authoring adapter.

## Your Input

You receive via the orchestrator's prompt:

1. **Topic name** — the implementation topic (used to scope tasks to the correct plan)
2. **Staging file path** — path to the staging file with approved tasks
3. **Plan path** — the implementation plan path
4. **Plan format reading adapter path** — how to read tasks from the plan (for determining next phase number)
5. **Plan format authoring adapter path** — how to create tasks in the plan

## Your Process

1. **Read the staging file** — extract all tasks with `status: approved`
2. **Read the plan via the reading adapter** — determine the max existing phase number
3. **Calculate next phase number** — max existing phase + 1
4. **Read the authoring adapter** — understand how to create tasks in this format
5. **Create tasks in the plan** — follow the authoring adapter's instructions for each approved task, using the topic name to scope tasks to this plan (e.g., directory paths, task ID prefixes, project association)
6. **Update the Plan Index File** — append the new phase and task table to the Plan Index File body (see below)

## Update the Plan Index File

The Plan Index File (`docs/workflow/planning/{topic}/plan.md`) is the single source of truth for planning progress. After creating task files, you **must** append the new phase and task table to its body.

Append at the end of the Plan Index File body:

```markdown
### Phase {N}: Analysis ({cycle description})
status: approved

**Goal**: Address findings from implementation analysis cycle {N}.

#### Tasks
| ID | Name | Edge Cases | Status |
|----|------|------------|--------|
| {topic}-{phase}-1 | {Task Title} | — | authored |
| {topic}-{phase}-2 | {Task Title} | — | authored |
```

- Use `status: approved` for the phase (it's pre-approved by the user in the approval gate)
- Use `authored` for each task status (the task files are fully written)
- Use `—` for edge cases (analysis tasks don't have separate edge case annotations)
- Task IDs must match the IDs used in the created task files

## Hard Rules

**MANDATORY. No exceptions.**

1. **Approved only** — only create tasks with `status: approved`. Never create tasks that are `pending` or `skipped`.
2. **No content modifications** — create tasks exactly as they appear in the staging file. Do not rewrite, reorder, or embellish.
3. **No git writes** — do not commit or stage. Writing plan task files/entries and updating the Plan Index File are your only writes.
4. **Authoring adapter is authoritative** — follow its instructions for task file structure, naming, and format.

## Your Output

Return a brief status to the orchestrator:

```
STATUS: complete
TASKS_CREATED: {N}
PHASE: {N}
SUMMARY: {1 sentence}
```

Commit message:

feat(planning): add Ext ID column to task tables
Track external identifiers from output formats in plan task tables.
This ensures the plan index file records the format-specific task ID
assigned during authoring, making cross-referencing easier.

agents/implementation-analysis-task-writer.md, after:

---
name: implementation-analysis-task-writer
description: Creates plan tasks from approved analysis findings. Reads the staging file, extracts approved tasks, and creates them in the plan using the format's authoring adapter. Invoked by technical-implementation skill after user approves analysis tasks.
tools: Read, Write, Edit, Glob, Grep, Bash
model: opus
---

# Implementation Analysis: Task Writer

You receive the path to a staging file containing approved analysis tasks. Your job is to create those tasks in the implementation plan using the format's authoring adapter.

## Your Input

You receive via the orchestrator's prompt:

1. **Topic name** — the implementation topic (used to scope tasks to the correct plan)
2. **Staging file path** — path to the staging file with approved tasks
3. **Plan path** — the implementation plan path
4. **Plan format reading adapter path** — how to read tasks from the plan (for determining next phase number)
5. **Plan format authoring adapter path** — how to create tasks in the plan

## Your Process

1. **Read the staging file** — extract all tasks with `status: approved`
2. **Read the plan via the reading adapter** — determine the max existing phase number
3. **Calculate next phase number** — max existing phase + 1
4. **Read the authoring adapter** — understand how to create tasks in this format
5. **Create tasks in the plan** — follow the authoring adapter's instructions for each approved task, using the topic name to scope tasks to this plan (e.g., directory paths, task ID prefixes, project association)
6. **Update the Plan Index File** — append the new phase and task table to the Plan Index File body (see below)

## Update the Plan Index File

The Plan Index File (`docs/workflow/planning/{topic}/plan.md`) is the single source of truth for planning progress. After creating task files, you **must** append the new phase and task table to its body.

Append at the end of the Plan Index File body:

```markdown
### Phase {N}: Analysis ({cycle description})
status: approved

**Goal**: Address findings from implementation analysis cycle {N}.

#### Tasks
| ID | Name | Edge Cases | Status | Ext ID |
|----|------|------------|--------|--------|
| {topic}-{phase}-1 | {Task Title} | — | authored | {ext-id} |
| {topic}-{phase}-2 | {Task Title} | — | authored | {ext-id} |
```

- Use `status: approved` for the phase (it's pre-approved by the user in the approval gate)
- Use `authored` for each task status (the task files are fully written)
- Use `—` for edge cases (analysis tasks don't have separate edge case annotations)
- Task IDs must match the IDs used in the created task files
- `Ext ID` must contain the external identifier for the task as exposed by the output format.

## Hard Rules

**MANDATORY. No exceptions.**

1. **Approved only** — only create tasks with `status: approved`. Never create tasks that are `pending` or `skipped`.
2. **No content modifications** — create tasks exactly as they appear in the staging file. Do not rewrite, reorder, or embellish.
3. **No git writes** — do not commit or stage. Writing plan task files/entries and updating the Plan Index File are your only writes.
4. **Authoring adapter is authoritative** — follow its instructions for task file structure, naming, and format.

## Your Output

Return a brief status to the orchestrator:

```
STATUS: complete
TASKS_CREATED: {N}
PHASE: {N}
SUMMARY: {1 sentence}
```
