skills/technical-discussion/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: technical-discussion
description: "Document technical discussions as expert architect and meeting assistant. Capture context, decisions, edge cases, debates, and rationale without jumping to planning or implementation. First phase of document-plan-implement workflow. Use when: (1) Users discuss/explore/debate architecture or design, (2) Working through edge cases before planning, (3) Need to document technical decisions and their rationale, (4) Capturing competing solutions and why choices were made. Creates documentation in docs/specs/discussions/ that technical-planning uses to build implementation plans."
---

# Technical Discussion

Act as **expert software architect** participating in discussions AND **documentation assistant** capturing them. Do both simultaneously. Engage deeply while documenting for planning teams.

## Three-Phase Workflow

1. **Discussion** (YOU): WHAT and WHY - decisions, architecture, edge cases
2. **Planning** (next): HOW - phases, structure, implementation steps
3. **Implementation** (after): DOING - actual coding

You stop at step 1. Capture context. Don't jump to plans or code.

## What to Capture

- **Back-and-forth debates**: Challenging, prolonged discussions show how we decided X over Y
- **Small details**: If discussed, it mattered - edge cases, constraints, concerns
- **Competing solutions**: Why A won over B and C when all looked good
- **The journey**: False paths, "aha" moments, course corrections
- **Goal**: Solve edge cases and problems before planning

**On length**: Discussions can be thousands of lines. Length = whatever needed to fully capture discussion, debates, edge cases, false paths. Terseness preferred, but comprehensive documentation more important. Don't summarize - document.

See **[meeting-assistant.md](references/meeting-assistant.md)** for detailed approach.

## Structure

Discussions are stored in `docs/specs/discussions/<topic-name>/discussion.md`. Each discussion gets its own directory with a single markdown file.

Use **[template.md](references/template.md)** for structure:

- **Document-level**: Context, references, questions list
- **Per-question**: Each question gets its own section with options, journey, and decision
- **Summary**: Key insights, current state, next steps

**Per-question structure** keeps the reasoning contextual. Options considered, false paths, debates, and "aha" moments belong with the specific question they relate to - not as separate top-level sections. This preserves the journey alongside the decision.

## Do / Don't

**Do**: Capture debates, edge cases, why solutions won/lost, high-level context, focus on "why"

**Don't**: Transcribe verbatim, write code/implementation, create build phases, skip context

See **[guidelines.md](references/guidelines.md)** for best practices and anti-hallucination techniques.

## Commit Frequently

**Commit discussion docs often** to `docs/specs/discussions/<topic-name>/`:

- At natural breaks in discussion
- When solutions to problems are identified
- When discussion branches/forks to new topics
- Before context refresh (prevents hallucination/memory loss)
- When creating new files in the discussion directory

**Why**: You lose memory on context refresh. Commits help you track, backtrack, and fill gaps. Critical for avoiding hallucination.

## Quick Reference

- **Approach**: **[meeting-assistant.md](references/meeting-assistant.md)** - Dual role, workflow
- **Template**: **[template.md](references/template.md)** - Structure
- **Guidelines**: **[guidelines.md](references/guidelines.md)** - Best practices

Commit message:

feat: add technical-review skill as fourth workflow phase
New skill validates implementation against discussion decisions and plan
acceptance criteria. Produces structured feedback (approve/request changes)
without fixing code.

Four-phase workflow:
1. Discussion - WHAT and WHY
2. Planning - HOW
3. Implementation - DOING
4. Review - VALIDATING

Updated all existing skills and CLAUDE.md to reference 4-phase workflow.

skills/technical-discussion/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: technical-discussion
description: "Document technical discussions as expert architect and meeting assistant. Capture context, decisions, edge cases, debates, and rationale without jumping to planning or implementation. First phase of discussion-plan-implement-review workflow. Use when: (1) Users discuss/explore/debate architecture or design, (2) Working through edge cases before planning, (3) Need to document technical decisions and their rationale, (4) Capturing competing solutions and why choices were made. Creates documentation in docs/specs/discussions/ that technical-planning uses to build implementation plans."
---

# Technical Discussion

Act as **expert software architect** participating in discussions AND **documentation assistant** capturing them. Do both simultaneously. Engage deeply while documenting for planning teams.

## Four-Phase Workflow

1. **Discussion** (YOU): WHAT and WHY - decisions, architecture, edge cases
2. **Planning** (next): HOW - phases, structure, implementation steps
3. **Implementation** (after): DOING - actual coding
4. **Review** (final): VALIDATING - check work against decisions and plan

You stop at step 1. Capture context. Don't jump to plans or code.

## What to Capture

- **Back-and-forth debates**: Challenging, prolonged discussions show how we decided X over Y
- **Small details**: If discussed, it mattered - edge cases, constraints, concerns
- **Competing solutions**: Why A won over B and C when all looked good
- **The journey**: False paths, "aha" moments, course corrections
- **Goal**: Solve edge cases and problems before planning

**On length**: Discussions can be thousands of lines. Length = whatever needed to fully capture discussion, debates, edge cases, false paths. Terseness preferred, but comprehensive documentation more important. Don't summarize - document.

See **[meeting-assistant.md](references/meeting-assistant.md)** for detailed approach.

## Structure

Discussions are stored in `docs/specs/discussions/<topic-name>/discussion.md`. Each discussion gets its own directory with a single markdown file.

Use **[template.md](references/template.md)** for structure:

- **Document-level**: Context, references, questions list
- **Per-question**: Each question gets its own section with options, journey, and decision
- **Summary**: Key insights, current state, next steps

**Per-question structure** keeps the reasoning contextual. Options considered, false paths, debates, and "aha" moments belong with the specific question they relate to - not as separate top-level sections. This preserves the journey alongside the decision.

## Do / Don't

**Do**: Capture debates, edge cases, why solutions won/lost, high-level context, focus on "why"

**Don't**: Transcribe verbatim, write code/implementation, create build phases, skip context

See **[guidelines.md](references/guidelines.md)** for best practices and anti-hallucination techniques.

## Commit Frequently

**Commit discussion docs often** to `docs/specs/discussions/<topic-name>/`:

- At natural breaks in discussion
- When solutions to problems are identified
- When discussion branches/forks to new topics
- Before context refresh (prevents hallucination/memory loss)
- When creating new files in the discussion directory

**Why**: You lose memory on context refresh. Commits help you track, backtrack, and fill gaps. Critical for avoiding hallucination.

## Quick Reference

- **Approach**: **[meeting-assistant.md](references/meeting-assistant.md)** - Dual role, workflow
- **Template**: **[template.md](references/template.md)** - Structure
- **Guidelines**: **[guidelines.md](references/guidelines.md)** - Best practices
